

2006 U
WU
IC
TAH
ILDLAND-   RBAN
NTERFACE    ODE

2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code
First Printing:July 2006
Second Printing:October 2006
Third Printing:March 2007
Fourth Printing:February 2008
Fifth Printing:June 2008
COPYRIGHT © 2006
by
INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This 2006Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Codecontains substantial copyrighted material from the
2003International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, which is a copyrighted work owned by the International Code Council, Inc.
Without advance written permission from the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed or transmitted in
any form or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of example and not limita-
tion, photocopying, or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system). For information on permission to copy material
exceeding  fair  use,  please  contact:  Publications,  4051  West  Flossmoor  Road,  Country  Club  Hills,  IL  60478-5771.  Phone
1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-7233).
Trademarks: “International Code Council,” the “International Code Council” logo and the “International Residential Code” are
trademarks of the International Code Council, Inc.
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

PREFACE
Introduction
Internationally, code officials recognize the need for a modern, up-to-date code addressing the mitigation of fire in the urban-wildland in-
terface. TheInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Code™, in this 2003 edition, is designed to bridge the gap between enforcement of the
International Building Code
Ò
andInternational Fire Code
Ò
by mitigating the hazard of wildfires through model code regulations, which
safeguard the public health and safety in all communities, large and small.
This comprehensive urban-wildland interface code establishes minimum regulations for land use and the built environment in desig-
nated urban-wildland interface areas using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. It is founded on data collected from tests and
fire incidents, technical reports and mitigation strategies from around the world. This 2003 edition is fully compatible with all theInterna-
tional Codes™(“I-Codes”™)published by the International Code Council
Ò
(ICC
Ò
), including theInternational Building Code
Ò
, ICC
Electrical Code™, International Energy Conservation Code
Ò
, International Existing Builiding Code
Ò
, International Fire Code
Ò
, Interna-
tional Fuel Gas Code
Ò
, International Mechanical Code
Ò
, ICC Performance Code™, International Plumbing Code
Ò
, International Pri-
vate Sewage Disposal Code
Ò
, International Property Maintenance Code
Ò
, International Residential Code
Ò
andInternational Zoning
Code
Ò
.
TheInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeprovisions provide many benefits, including the model code development process,
which offers an international forum for fire safety professionals to discuss performance and prescriptive code requirements. This forum
provides an excellent arena to debate proposed revisions. This model code also encourages international consistency in the application of
provisions.
Development
This is the first edition of theInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Code(2003) and is the culmination of an effort initiated in 2001 by
the ICC and the three statutory members of the International Code Council: Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc.
(BOCA), International Conference of Building Officials (ICBO) and Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCI). The intent
was to draft a comprehensive set of regulations for mitigating the hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland expo-
sures and fire from adjacent structures, and preventing structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. Technical content of the 2000
Wildland- Urban Interface Code, published by the International Fire Code Institute, was utilized as the basis for the development, followed
by the publication of the 2001 Final Draft. This 2003 edition is based on the Final Draft, with changes approved in the 2002 ICC Code De-
velopment Process. A new edition such as this is promulgated every three years.
With the development and publication of the family ofInternational Codesin 2000, the continued development and maintenance of the
model codes individually promulgated by BOCA (“BOCA National Codes”), ICBO (“Uniform Codes”) and SBCCI (“Standard Codes”)
was discontinued. The 2003International Codes,as well as their predecessors—the 2000International Codes—are intended to be the suc-
cessor set of codes to those codes previously developed by BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI.
The development of a single family of comprehensive and coordinatedInternational Codeswas a significant milestone in the develop-
ment of regulations for the built environment. The timing of this publication mirrors a milestone in the change in structure of the model
codes, namely, the pending consolidation of BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI into the ICC. The activities and services previously provided by the
individual model code organizations will be the responsibility of the consolidated ICC.
This code is founded on principles intended to mitigate the hazard from fires through the development of provisions that adequately pro-
tect public health, safety and welfare; provisions that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; provisions that do not restrict the use
of new materials, products or methods of construction; and provisions that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of
materials, products or methods of construction.
Adoption
TheInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeis available for adoption and use by jurisdictions internationally. Its use within a govern-
mental jurisdiction is intended to be accomplished through adoption by reference in accordance with proceedings establishing the jurisdic-
tion’s  laws.  At  the  time  of  adoption,  jurisdictions  should  insert  the  appropriate  information  in  provisions  requiring  specific  local
information, such as the name of the adopting jurisdiction. These locations are shown in bracketed words in small capital letters in the code
and in the sample ordinance. The sample adoption ordinance on pagevaddresses several key elements of a code adoption ordinance,
including the information required for insertion into the code text.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODEiii
1
0b_pref_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_iii.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0b_pref_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:47:06 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

Maintenance
TheInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeis kept up-to-date through the review of proposed changes submitted by code
enforcing officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties. Proposed changes are carefully
considered through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.
The contents of this work are subject to change both through the Code Development Cycles and the governmental body that enacts the
code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Code and Standard Development Department of
the International Code Council.
Although the development procedure of theInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeassures the highest degree of care, ICC and
the founding members of ICC—BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI—their members and those participating in the development of this code do not
accept any liability resulting from compliance or noncompliance with the provisions, because ICC and its founding members do not have
the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of this code. Only the governmental body that enacts the code into
law has such authority.
Authority
The Division is required to establish minimum standards for a wildland fire ordinance and specify minimum standards for wildland fire
training, certification and wildland fire suppression equipment in accordance with subsections 65A-8-6(3)(a) and 65A-8-6(3)(b). This re-
quirement is promulgated under general rule-making authority of subsection 65A-1-4(2).
iv2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
0b_pref_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_iv.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0b_pref_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:47:24 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

ORDINANCE
TheInternational Codesare designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by ordinance. Jurisdictions wishing to adopt the 2003
International Wildland-Urban Interface Codeas an enforceable regulation for the mitigation of fire in the urban-wildland interface should
ensure that certain factual information is included in the adopting ordinance at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate
governmental body. The following sample adoption ordinance addresses several key elements of a code adoption ordinance, including the
information required for insertion into the code text.
Minimum Standards for Wildland Fire Ordinance
The division uses theInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeas a basis for establishing the minimum standards discussed in this
document. A county ordinance that at least meets the minimum standards should be in place by September 2006.
The Division incorporates by reference the 2003International Code Council Wildland-Urban Interface Codeas the minimum standard
for wildland fire ordinance in conjunction with Utah requirements.
SAMPLE ORDINANCE FOR ADOPTION OF
THE
INTERNATIONAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
ORDINANCE NO.________
An ordinance of the[JURISDICTION]adopting the 2003 edition of theInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Codeas currently
amended by the division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands, regulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the
intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels in
the
[JURISDICTION]; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; repealing Ordinance No. ______ of the[JU-
RISDICTION]and all other ordinances and parts of the ordinances in conflict therewith.
The
[GOVERNING BODY]of the[JURISDICTION]does ordain as follows:
Section 1.That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
[TITLE OF JURISDICTION’S KEEPER OF RE-
CORDS]of[NAME OF JURISDICTION], being marked and designated as theInternational Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2003 edi-
tion, including Appendix Chapters
[FILL IN THE APPENDIX CHAPTERS BEING ADOPTED  ], as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Urban-Wildland Interface Code of the
[JURISDICTION], in the State of[STATE NAME]for reg-
ulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent
structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Urban-Wildland Interface
Code on file in the office of the
[JURISDICTION]are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordi-
nance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 2 of this ordinance.
Section 2.The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert:
[NAME OF JURISDICTION]
Section 3.That Ordinance No. ______ of[JURISDICTION]entitled[FILL IN HERE THE COMPLETE TITLE OF THE ORDINANCE OR OR-
DINANCES IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY DEFINITE MENTION]and all other ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Section 4.That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The
[GOVERNING BODY]hereby declares that it would
have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-
sections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.
Section 5.That nothing in this ordinance or in theWildland-Urban Interface Codehereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under
any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 2 of this ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this ordinance.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODEv
1
0c_ord_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pgv.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0c_ord_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:33:06 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

Section 6.That the[JURISDICTION’S KEEPER OF RECORDS]is hereby ordered and directed to cause this ordinance to be published.
(An additional provision may be required to direct the number of times the ordinance is to be published and to specify that it is to be in a
newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.)
Section 7.That this ordinance and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby
shall take effect and be in full force and effect
[TIME PERIOD]from and after the date of its final passage and adoption.
Section 8.Specific boundaries of natural or man-made features of wildland-urban interface areas shall be as shown on the wildland area
interface map. The legal description of such areas is as described as follows:
[INSERT LEGAL DESCRIPTION]
vi2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
0c_ord_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pgvi.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0c_ord_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:33:28 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1ADMINISTRATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Section
101General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
102Authority of the Code Official  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
103Compliance Alternatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
104Appeals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
105Permits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
106Plans and Specifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
107Inspection and Enforcement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
108Certificate of Completion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
CHAPTER 2DEFINITIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Section
201General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
202Definitions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
CHAPTER 3WILDLAND-URBAN
INTERFACE AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Section
301Wildland-Urban Interface Area Designations . . . . . . 9
CHAPTER 4WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
AREA REQUIREMENTS . . . . . . . . . 11
Section
401General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
402Applicability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
403Access . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
404Water Supply. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
405Fire Protection Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
CHAPTER 5SPECIAL BUILDING CON-
STRUCTION REGULATIONS  . . . . 15
Section
501General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
502Fire Hazard Severity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
503Ignition-resistant Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
504Class 1 Ignition-resistant Construction . . . . . . . . . . 15
505Class 2 Ignition-resistant Construction . . . . . . . . . . 16
506Class 3 Ignition-resistant Construction . . . . . . . . . . 17
507Replacement or Repair of Roof Coverings . . . . . . . 18
CHAPTER 6FIRE-PROTECTION
REQUIREMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Section
601General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
603Defensible Space. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
604Maintenance of Defensible Space . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
605Spark Arresters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
606Liquefied Petroleum Gas Installations  . . . . . . . . . . 20
607Storage of Firewood and
Combustible Materials  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
APPENDIX A   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. . . . . 21
Section
A101   General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
A102   Vegetation Control  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
A103   Access Restrictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
A104   Ignition Source Control. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
A105   Control of Storage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A106   Dumping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A107   Protection of Pumps and Water
Storage Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
A108   Land Use Limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
APPENDIX B    VEGETATION
MANAGEMENT PLAN . . . . . . . . . . . 25
APPENDIX C   FIRE HAZARD
SEVERITY FORM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODEvii
1
0d_toc_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pgvii.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0d_toc_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:34:52 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

viii2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
0d_toc_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pgviii.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\0d_toc_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:42:28 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 101
GENERAL
101.1  Scope.The provisions of this code shall apply to the
construction,  alteration,  movement,  repair,  maintenance  and
use of any building, structure or premises within the urban-
wildland interface areas in this jurisdiction.
Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adop
-
tion of this code are allowed to have their use or occupancy con
-
tinued, if such condition, use or occupancy was legal at the time
of the adoption of this code, provided such continued use does
not constitute a distinct danger to life or property.
Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction
shall comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings
or structures.
101.2  Objective.The  objective  of  this  code  is  to  establish
minimum  regulations  consistent  with  nationally  recognized
good practice for the safeguarding of life and property. Regula-
tions in this code are intended to mitigate the risk to life and
structures from intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures
and  fire  exposures  from  adjacent  structures  and  to  mitigate
structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels.
The development and use of property in wildland-urban in-
terface areas is a potential threat to life and property from fire
and resulting erosion. Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of
fires and to provide adequate fire-protection facilities to control
the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface areas shall be in
accordance with this code.
This code shall supplement the jurisdiction’s building and
fire codes, if such codes have been adopted, to provide for spe
-
cial regulations to mitigate the fire- and life-safety hazards of
the wildland-urban interface areas.
101.3  Retroactivity.The provisions of the code shall apply
to conditions arising after the adoption thereof, conditions not
legally in existence at the adoption of this code, to conditions
which, in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct
hazard to life or property.
101.4  Additions  or  alterations.Additions  or  alterations
may be made to any building or structure without requiring the
existing building or structure to comply with all of the require
-
ments of  this code,  provided  the addition  or  alteration con
-
forms to that required for a new building or structure.
Exception:Provisions of this code that specifically apply to
existing conditions are retroactive. See Section 601.1 and
Appendix A.
Additions  or  alterations  shall  not  be  made  to  an  existing
building or structure that will cause the existing building or
structure to be in violation of any of the provisions of this code
nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing build
-
ing or structure to become unsafe. An unsafe condition shall be
deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration will
cause the existing building or structure to become structurally
unsafe or overloaded; will not provide adequate access in com
-
pliance with the provisions of this code or will obstruct existing
exits or access; will create a fire hazard; will reduce required
fire resistance or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to
human life.
101.5  Maintenance.All buildings, structures, landscape ma
-
terials, vegetation, defensible space or other devices or safe
-
guards  required  by  this  code  shall  be  maintained  in
conformance to the code edition under which installed. The
owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for
the maintenance of buildings, structures, landscape materials
and vegetation.
SECTION 102
AUTHORITY OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
102.1  Powers and duties of the code official.The code offi-
cial is hereby authorized to administer and enforce this code, or
designated sections thereof, and all ordinances of the jurisdic-
tion pertaining to designated wildland-urban interface areas.
For such purposes, the code official shall have the powers of a
law enforcement officer.
102.2  Interpretations, rules and regulations.The code of-
ficial shall have the power to render interpretations of this code
and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental regulations to
clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
rules and regulations shall be in conformance to the intent and
purpose of this code.
A copy of such rules and regulations shall be filed with the
clerk  of  the  jurisdiction  and  shall  be  in  effect  immediately
thereafter. Additional copies shall be available for distribution
to the public.
102.3  Liability  of  the  code  official.The  code  official
charged with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith
and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by
this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby
be rendered personally liable for damages that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or
omission in the discharge of such duties. A suit brought against
the code official or employee because of such act or omission
performed by the code official or employee in the enforcement
of any provision of such codes or other pertinent laws or ordi
-
nances implemented through the enforcement of this code or
enforced by the code enforcement agency shall be defended by
this jurisdiction until final termination of such proceedings,
and any judgment resulting therefrom shall be assumed by this
jurisdiction. The code enforcement agency or its parent juris
-
diction shall not be held as assuming any liability by reason of
the inspections authorized by this code or any permits or certif
-
icates issued under this code.
102.4  Other agencies.When requested to do so by the code
official, other officials of this jurisdiction shall assist and coop
-
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE1
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
1
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:04 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

erate with the code official in the discharge of the duties re
-
quired by this code.
SECTION 103
COMPLIANCE ALTERNATIVES
103.1  Practical difficulties.When there are practical diffi
-
culties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the
code official is authorized to grant modifications for individual
cases on application in writing by the owner or a duly autho
-
rized representative. The code official shall first find that a spe
-
cial individual reason makes enforcement of the strict letter of
this code impractical, the modification is in conformance to the
intent and purpose of this code, and the modification does not
lessen any fire protection requirements or any degree of struc
-
tural integrity. The details of any action granting modifications
shall be recorded and entered into the files of the code enforce
-
ment agency.
If the code official determines that difficult terrain, danger of
erosion or other unusual circumstances make strict compliance
with the vegetation control provisions of the code detrimental
to  safety  or  impractical,  enforcement  thereof  may  be  sus-
pended,  provided  that  reasonable  alternative  measures  are
taken.
103.2  Technical assistance.To determine the acceptability
of technologies, processes, products, facilities, materials and
uses attending the design, operation or use of a building or pre-
mises subject to the inspection of the code official, the code of-
ficial  is  authorized  to  require  the  owner  or  the  person  in
possession or control of the building or premises to provide,
without charge to the jurisdiction, a technical opinion and re
-
port. The opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified
engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organi
-
zation acceptable to the code official and the owner and shall
analyze the fire safety of the design, operation or use of the
building or premises, the facilities and appurtenances situated
thereon and fuel management for purposes of establishing fire
hazard severity to recommend necessary changes.
103.3  Alternative materials or methods.The code official,
in concurrence with approval from the building official and fire
chief, is authorized to approve alternative materials or meth
-
ods, provided that the code official finds that the proposed de
-
sign, use or operation satisfactorily complies with the intent of
this code and that the alternative is, for the purpose intended, at
least equivalent to the level of quality, strength, effectiveness,
fire resistance, durability and safety prescribed by this code.
Approvals under the authority herein contained shall be subject
to the approval of the building official whenever the alternate
material or method involves matters regulated by theInterna
-
tional Building Code.
The code official shall require that sufficient evidence or
proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made
regarding its use. The details of any action granting approval of
an alternate shall be recorded and entered in the files of the
code enforcement agency.
SECTION 104
APPEALS
104.1  General.To  determine  the  suitability  of  alternative
materials and methods and to provide for reasonable interpreta
-
tions of the provisions of this code, there shall be and hereby is
created a board of appeals consisting of five members who are
qualified by experience and training to pass judgment on perti
-
nent matters. The code official, building official and fire chief
shall be ex officio members, and the code official shall act as
secretary of the board. The board of appeals shall be appointed
by the legislative body and shall hold office at their discretion.
The board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for con
-
ducting its investigations and shall render decisions and find
-
ings in writing to the code official, with a duplicate copy to the
applicant.
104.2  Limitations of authority.The board of appeals shall
not have authority relative to interpretation of the administra
-
tive  provisions  of  this  code  and  shall  not  have  authority  to
waive requirements of this code.
SECTION 105
PERMITS
105.1  General.When not otherwise provided in the require-
ments of the building or fire code, permits are required in ac-
cordance with Section 105.
105.2  Permits  required.Unless  otherwise  exempted,  no
building or structure regulated by this code shall be erected,
constructed, altered, repaired, moved, removed, converted or
demolished unless a separate permit for each building or struc-
ture has first been obtained from the code official.
When required by the code official, a permit shall be ob-
tained  for  the  following  activities,  operations,  practices  or
functions within an wildland-urban interface area:
1.  Automobile wrecking yard;
2.  Candles and open flames in assembly areas;
3.  Explosives or blasting agents;
4.  Fireworks;
5.  Flammable or combustible liquids;
6.  Hazardous materials;
7.  Liquefied petroleum gases;
8.  Lumberyards;
9.  Motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations;
10. Open burning;
11. Pyrotechnical special effects material;
12. Tents, canopies and temporary membrane structures;
13. Tire storage;
14. Welding and cutting operations; or
15. Other activities as determined by the code official.
105.3  Work  exempt  from  permit.Unless  otherwise  pro
-
vided in the requirements of the building or fire code, a permit
shall not be required for the following:
1.   One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and
storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the
floor area does not exceed 120 square feet (11.15 m
2
) and
ADMINISTRATION
22006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:04 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

the structure is located more than 50 feet (15 240 mm)
from the nearest adjacent structure.
2.   Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall
not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any
other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction.
The code official is authorized to stipulate conditions for
permits. Permits shall not be issued when public safety would
be at risk, as determined by the code official.
105.4  Permit application.To obtain a permit, the applicant
shall first file an application therefor in writing on a form fur
-
nished by the code enforcement agency for that purpose. Every
such application shall:
1.   Identify and describe the work, activity, operation, prac
-
tice or function to be covered by the permit for which ap
-
plication is made.
2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work, activity,
operation, practice or function is to be done by legal de
-
scription, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed build
-
ing, work, activity, operation, practice or function.
3.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed
work,  activity,  operation,  practice  or  function  is  in-
tended.
4.   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computation and
specifications and other data as required in Section 106
of this code.
5.   State the valuation of any new building or structure or
any  addition,  remodeling  or  alteration  to  an  existing
building.
6.   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant’s authorized
agent.
7.   Give such other data and information as may be required
by the code official.
105.5  Permit approval.Before a permit is issued, the code
official, or an authorized representative, shall review and ap
-
prove  all  permitted  uses,  occupancies  or  structures.  Where
laws or regulations are enforceable by other agencies or depart
-
ments, a joint approval shall be obtained from all agencies or
departments concerned.
105.6  Permit  issuance.The  application,  plans,  specifica
-
tions and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be
reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the
work  described  in an application for  a permit and the plan,
specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the re
-
quirements of this code, the code official is allowed to issue a
permit to the applicant.
When the code official issues the permit, the code official
shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and specifications
APPROVED. Such approved plans and specifications shall not
be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the
code official, and all work regulated by this code shall be done
in accordance with the approved plans.
105.7  Validity of permit.The issuance or granting of a per
-
mit or approval of plans, specifications and computations shall
not  be  construed  to  be  a  permit  for,  or  an  approval of,  any
violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other or
-
dinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority
to violate or conceal the provisions of this code or other ordi
-
nances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
105.8  Expiration.Every permit issued by the code official
under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and
become null and void if the building, use or work authorized by
such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of
such permit, or if the building, use or work authorized by such
permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is
commenced for a period of 180 days.
Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for
an extension of the time within which work may commence un
-
der that permit when the permittee is unable to commence work
within the time required by this section for good and satisfac
-
tory reasons. The code official may extend the time for action
by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days on written
request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond
the control of the permittee have prevented action from being
taken. No permit shall be extended more than once.
105.9  Retention of permits.Permits shall at all times be kept
on the premises designated therein and shall at all times be sub-
ject to inspection by the code official or other authorized repre-
sentative.
105.10  Revocation  of  permits.Permits  issued  under  this
code may be suspended or revoked when it is determined by the
code official that:
1.   It is used by a person other than the person to whom the
permit was issued.
2.   It is used for a location other than that for which the per-
mit was issued.
3.   Any of the conditions or limitations set forth in the per
-
mit have been violated.
4.   The permittee fails, refuses or neglects to comply with
any order or notice duly served on him under the provi
-
sions of this code within the time provided therein.
5.   There has been any false statement or misrepresentation
as to material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or application was made.
6.   When the permit is issued in error or in violation of any
other ordinance, regulations or provisions of this code.
The code official is allowed to, in writing, suspend or revoke
a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the
permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any
of the provisions of this code.
SECTION 106
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
106.1  General.Plans,  engineering  calculations,  diagrams
and other data shall be submitted in at least two sets with each
application for a permit. When such plans are not prepared by
an architect or engineer, the code official may require the appli
-
cant submitting such plans or other data to demonstrate that
state law does not require that the plans be prepared by a li
-
ADMINISTRATION
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE3
3
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:05 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

censed  architect  or  engineer.  The  code  official  may  require
plans, computations and specifications to be prepared and de
-
signed by an architect or engineer licensed by the state to prac
-
tice as such even if not required by state law.
Exception:Submission of plans, calculations, construction
inspection requirements and other data, if it is found that the
nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans
is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code.
106.2  Information on plans and specifications.Plans and
specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or
cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location,
nature and extent of the work proposed, and show in detail that
it will conform to the provisions of this code and all relevant
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
106.3  Site plan.In addition to the requirements for plans in
theInternational Building Code, site plans shall include topog
-
raphy, width and percent of grade of access roads, landscape
and vegetation details, locations of structures or building enve
-
lopes, existing or proposed overhead utilities, occupancy clas
-
sification of buildings, types of ignition-resistant construction
of buildings, structures and their appendages, roof classifica
-
tion of buildings, and site water supply systems.
106.4  Vegetation management plans.When utilized by the
permit applicant pursuant to Section 502, vegetation manage-
ment plans shall be prepared and shall be submitted to the code
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for
a permit. See Appendix B.
106.5  Fire protection plan.When required by the code offi-
cial pursuant to Section 405, a fire protection plan shall be pre-
pared and shall be submitted to the code official for review and
approved as a part of the plans required for a permit.
106.6  Other data and substantiation.When required by the
code official, the plans and specifications shall include classifi
-
cation of fuel loading, fuel model light, medium or heavy, and
substantiating data to verify classification of fire-resistive veg
-
etation.
106.7  Vicinity plan.In addition to the requirements for site
plans, plans shall include details regarding the vicinity within
300 feet (91 440 mm) of property lines, including other struc
-
tures, slope, vegetation, fuel breaks, water supply systems and
access roads.
106.8  Retention of plans.One set of approved plans, specifi
-
cations and computations shall be retained by the code official
for a period of not less than 90 days from date of completion of
the work covered therein; and one set of approved plans and
specifications shall be returned to the applicant, and said set
shall be kept on the site of the building, use or work at all times
during which the work authorized thereby is in progress.
SECTION 107
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
107.1  Inspection.
107.1.1  General.All  construction  or  work  for  which  a
permit is required by this code shall be subject to inspection
by the code official and all such construction or work shall
remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until
approved by the code official.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the
work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection pur
-
poses. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be
liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of
any material required to allow inspection.
Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be con
-
strued to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of
this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspec
-
tions presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdic
-
tion shall not be valid.
A survey of the lot may be required by the code official to
verify  that  the  mitigation  features  are  provided  and  the
building or structure is located in accordance with the ap
-
proved plans.
107.1.2  Authority to inspect.The code official shall in
-
spect, as often as necessary, buildings and premises, includ
-
ing such other hazards or appliances designated by the code
official for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
corrected any conditions that could reasonably be expected
to cause fire or contribute to its spread, or any violation of
the purpose of this code and of any other law or standard af-
fecting fire safety.
107.1.3  Reinspections.To  determine  compliance  with
this code, the code official may cause a structure to be rein-
spected. A fee may be assessed for each inspection or rein-
spection when such portion of work for which inspection is
called is not complete or when corrections called for are not
made.
Reinspection fees may be assessed when the approved
plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failure to
provide access on the date for which inspection is requested
or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the
code official.
To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall pay the rein
-
spection fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the
jurisdiction. When reinspection fees have been assessed, no
additional inspection of the work will be performed until the
required fees have been paid.
107.2  Enforcement.
107.2.1  Authorization to issue corrective orders and no
-
tices.When the code official finds any building or premises
that are in violation of this code, the code official is autho
-
rized to issue corrective orders and notices.
107.2.2  Service  of  orders  and  notices.Orders  and  no
-
tices authorized or required by this code shall be given or
served on the owner, operator, occupant or other person re
-
sponsible for the condition or violation either by verbal noti
-
fication,  personal  service,  or  delivering  the  same  to,  and
leaving it with, a person of suitable age and discretion on the
premises; or, if no such person is found on the premises, by
affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to
the entrance of said premises and by mailing a copy thereof
to such person by registered or certified mail to the person’s
last known address.
ADMINISTRATION
42006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
4
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:05 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

Orders or notices that are given verbally shall be con
-
firmed by service in writing as herein provided.
107.3  Right  of  entry.Whenever  necessary  to  make  an  in
-
spection to enforce any of the provisions of this code, or when
-
ever the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or on any premises any condition that
makes such building or premises unsafe, the code official is au
-
thorized to enter such building or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty authorized by
this code, provided that if such building or premises is occu
-
pied, the code official shall first present proper credentials and
request entry; and if such building or premises is unoccupied,
the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of the building
or premises and request entry.
If such entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse
to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. Owners, oc
-
cupants or any other persons having charge, care or control of
any building or premises, shall, after proper request is made as
herein provided, promptly permit entry therein by the code of
-
ficial for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to
this code.
107.4  Compliance with orders and notices.
107.4.1  General compliance.Orders and notices issued
or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by
the owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible
for the condition or violation to which the corrective order
or notice pertains.
If the building or premises is not occupied, such correc-
tive orders or notices shall be complied with by the owner.
107.4.2  Compliance  with  tags.A  building  or  premises
shall not be used when in violation of this code as noted on a
tag affixed in accordance with Section 107.4.1.
107.4.3  Removal and destruction of signs and tags.A
sign or tag posted or affixed by the code official shall not be
mutilated, destroyed or removed without authorization by
the code official.
107.4.4  Citations.Persons  operating  or  maintaining  an
occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this code who al
-
low a hazard to exist or fail to take immediate action to abate
a hazard on such occupancy, premises or vehicle when or
-
dered or notified to do so by the code official shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
107.4.5  Unsafe conditions.Buildings, structures or pre
-
mises that constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise danger
-
ous  to  human  life,  or  which  in  relation  to  existing  use
constitute a hazard to safety or health or public welfare, by
reason  of  inadequate  maintenance,  dilapidation,  obsoles
-
cence, fire hazard, disaster damage or abandonment as spec
-
ified  in  this  code  or  any  other  ordinance,  are  unsafe
conditions. Unsafe buildings or structures shall not be used.
Unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal,  pursuant  to  applicable  state  and  local  laws  and
codes.
SECTION 108
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION
No building, structure or premises shall be used or occupied,
and  no  change  in the existing occupancy classification of  a
building, structure, premise or portion thereof shall be made
until the code official has issued a certificate of completion
therefor as provided herein. The certificate of occupancy shall
not be issued until the certificate of completion indicating that
the project is in compliance with this code has been issued by
the code official.
Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed
as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of
other pertinent laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certifi
-
cates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provi
-
sions of this code or other laws or ordinances of the jurisdiction
shall not be valid.
ADMINISTRATION
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE5
5
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:05 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

62006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
6
01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\01_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:15:05 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 201
GENERAL
201.1 Scope.Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow
-
ing words and terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have
the meanings shown in this chapter.
201.2 Interchangeability.Words stated in the present tense
include the future; words stated in the masculine gender in
-
clude  the  feminine  and  neuter,  and  the  singular  number  in
-
cludes the plural and the plural the singular.
201.3 Terms defined in other codes.Where terms are not
defined  in  this  code  and  are  defined  in  otherInternational
Codes, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
in those codes.
201.4 Terms not defined.Where  terms  are  not  defined
through  the  methods  authorized  by  this  section,  such  terms
shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the con-
text implies.
SECTION 202
DEFINITIONS
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.A building or structure used to
shelter or support  any material, equipment,  chattel or occu-
pancy other than a habitable building.
APPROVED.Approval by the code official as the result of re-
view, investigation or tests conducted by the code official or by
reason of accepted principles or tests by national authorities, or
technical or scientific organizations.
BRUSH, SHORT.Low-growing species that reach heights of 1
to 3 feet. Sagebrush, snowberry and rabbitbrush are some variet
-
ies.
BRUSH, TALL.Arbor-like  varieties  of  brush  species  and/or
short varieties of broad-leaf trees that grow in compact groups or
clumps. These groups or clumps reach heights of 4 to 20 feet. In
Utah, this includes primary varieties of oak, maples, chokecherry,
serviceberry and mahogany, but may also include other species.
BUILDING.Any structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
BUILDING OFFICIAL.The officer or other designated au
-
thority charged with the administration and enforcement of the
International Building Code,or the building official’s duly au
-
thorized representative.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.Written documenta
-
tion that the project or work for which a permit was issued has
been  completed  in  conformance  with  requirements  of  this
code.
CODE OFFICIAL.The official designated by the jurisdiction
to interpret and enforce this code, or the code official’s autho
-
rized representative.
DEFENSIBLE SPACE.An area either natural or man-made,
where material capable of allowing a fire to spread unchecked
has been treated, cleared or modified to slow the rate and inten
-
sity of an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire sup
-
pression operations to occur.
DRIVEWAY.A vehicular ingress and egress route that serves
no more than two buildings or structures, not including acces
-
sory structures, or more than five dwelling units.
FIRE AREA.The floor area, in square feet (square meters),
used to determine the adequate water supply.
FIRE CHIEF.The chief officer or the chief officer’s autho
-
rized representative of the fire department serving the jurisdic
-
tion.
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN.A  document  prepared  for  a
specific project or development proposed for the wildland-ur
-
ban interface area. It describes ways to minimize and mitigate
the fire problems created by the project or development, with
the purpose of reducing impact on the community’s fire protec-
tion delivery system.
FIRE WEATHER.Weather conditions favorable to the igni-
tion and rapid spread of fire. In wildfires, this generally in-
cludes high temperatures combined with strong winds and low
humidity.
FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION.The use
of materials and systems in the design and construction of a
building  or  structure  to  safeguard  against the  spread  of  fire
within a building or structure and the spread of fire to or from
buildings or structures to the wildland-urban interface area.
FLAME SPREAD RATING.As used herein refers to rating
obtained according to tests conducted as specified by a nation
-
ally recognized standard.
FUEL BREAK.An area, strategically located for fighting an
-
ticipated fires, where the native vegetation has been perma
-
nently modified or replaced so that fires burning into it can be
more easily controlled. Fuel breaks divide fire-prone areas into
smaller areas for easier fire control and to provide access for
fire fighting.
FUEL, HEAVY.Vegetation consisting of round wood 3 inches
(76 mm) or larger in diameter. The amount of fuel (vegetation)
would be 6 tons per acre or greater.
FUEL, LIGHT.Vegetation consisting of herbaceous and round
wood less than
1
/
4
inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. The amount of fuel
(vegetation) would be
1
/
2
tonto2tonsperacre.
FUEL, MEDIUM.Vegetation consisting of round wood
1
/
4
to 3
inches (6.4mm to 76 mm) in diameter.  The amount of fuel (vegeta
-
tion) would be 2 to 6 tons per acre.
FUEL MODIFICATION.A method of modifying fuel load
by reducing the amount of nonfire-resistive vegetation or alter
-
ing the type of vegetation to reduce the fuel load.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE7
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
1
02_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\02_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:21:18 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

FUEL MOSAIC.A fuel modification system that provides for
the creation of islands and irregular boundaries to reduce the
visual and ecological impact of fuel modification.
FUEL-LOADING.The oven-dry weight of fuels in a given
area, usually expressed in pounds per acre (lb/a) (kg/ha). Fuel
loading may be referenced to fuel size or timelag categories,
and may include surface fuels or total fuels.
GREENBELT.A fuel break designated for a use other than
fire protection.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.As  defined  in  theInterna
-
tional Fire Code.
HEAVY TIMBER CONSTRUCTION.As described in the
International Building Code.
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (ISO).An agency that
recommends fire insurance rates based on a grading schedule
that  incorporates  evaluation  of  fire  fighting  resources  and
capabilities.
LEGISLATIVE BODY.The governing body of the political ju
-
risdiction administering this code.
LOG WALL CONSTRUCTION.A type of construction in
which exterior walls are constructed of solid wood members
and  where  the  smallest  horizontal  dimension  of  each  solid
wood member is at least 6 inches (152 mm).
MULTILAYERED GLAZED PANELS.Window  or  door
assemblies that consist of two or more independently glazed
panels installed parallel to each other, having a sealed air gap in
between, within a frame designed to fill completely the win-
dow or door opening in which the assembly is intended to be
installed.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE.As applied to building construction
material means a material that, in the form in which it is used, is
either one of the following:
1.   Material of which no part will ignite and burn when sub
-
jected to fire. Any material conforming to ASTM E 136
shall be considered noncombustible within the meaning
of this section.
2.   Material having a structural base of noncombustible ma
-
terial as defined in Item 1 above, with a surfacing mate
-
rial not over
1
/
8
inch (3.2 mm) thick, which has a flame-
spread rating of 50 or less. Flame-spread rating as used
herein refers to rating obtained according to tests con
-
ducted as specified in ASTM E 84.
“Noncombustible” does not apply to surface finish materi
-
als. Material required to be noncombustible for reduced clear
-
ances  to  flues,  heating  appliances  or  other  sources  of  high
temperature shall refer to material conforming to Item 1. No
material shall be classed as noncombustible that is subject to
increase in combustibility or flame-spread rating, beyond the
limits herein established, through the effects of age, moisture
or other atmospheric condition.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE ROOF COVERING.One of the fol
-
lowing:
1.   Cement shingles or sheets.
2.   Exposed concrete slab roof.
3.   Ferrous or copper shingles or sheets.
4.   Slate shingles.
5.   Clay or concrete roofing tile.
6.   Approved roof covering of noncombustible material.
SLOPE.The variation of terrain from the horizontal; the num
-
ber of feet (meters) rise or fall per 100 feet (30 480 mm) mea
-
sured horizontally, expressed as a percentage.
STRUCTURE.That which is built or constructed, an edifice
or building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up
or composed of parts joined together in some manner.
TREE CROWN.The primary and secondary branches grow
-
ing out from the main stem, together with twigs and foliage.
UNENCLOSED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.An acces
-
sory structure without a complete exterior wall system enclos
-
ing the area under roof or floor above.
WILDFIRE.An uncontrolled fire spreading through vegeta
-
tive fuels, exposing and possibly consuming structures.
WILDLAND.An  area  in  which  development  is essentially
nonexistent, except for roads, railroads, power lines and similar
facilities.
WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE.The line, area or zone
where structures or other human development (including critical
infrastructure that if destroyed would result in hardship to com-
munities) meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or veg-
etative fuel.
DEFINITIONS
82006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
02_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\02_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:21:18 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 301
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
AREA DESIGNATIONS
301.1 Declaration.The  legislative  body  shall  declare  the
wildland-urban  interface  areas  within  the  jurisdiction.  The
urban-wildland interface areas shall be based on the maps cre
-
ated in accordance with Section 301.
301.2 Mapping.In cooperation, the code official and the Divi
-
sion of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (FFSL) wildfire repre
-
sentative  (per  participating  agreement  between  county  and
FFSL) will create or review Wildland-Urban  Interface Area
maps, to be recorded and filed with the clerk of the jurisdiction.
These areas shall become effective immediately thereafter.
301.3 Review of wildland-urban interface areas.The code
official and the FFSL wildfire representative shall reevaluate
and recommend modification to the wildland-urban interface
areas in accordance with Section 301.1 on a three-year basis or
more frequently as deemed necessary by the legislative body.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE9
CHAPTER 3
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREAS
1
03_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\03_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:31:56 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

102006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
03_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\03_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:31:56 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 401
GENERAL
401.1  Scope.Wildland-urban  interface  areas  shall  be  pro
-
vided with emergency vehicle access and water supply in ac
-
cordance with this chapter.
401.2  Objective.The objective of this chapter is to establish
the minimum requirements for emergency vehicle access and
water  supply  for  buildings  and  structures  located  in  the
wildland-urban interface areas.
401.3  General  safety  precautions.General  safety  precau
-
tions shall be in accordance with this chapter. See also Appen
-
dix A.
SECTION 402
APPLICABILITY
402.1  Subdivisions.
402.1.1  Access.New subdivisions, as determined by this
jurisdiction,  shall  be  provided  with  fire  apparatus  access
roads in accordance with theInternational Fire Codeand
access requirements in accordance with Section 403.
402.1.2  Water  supply.New  subdivisions  as  determined
by this jurisdiction shall be provided with water supply in
accordance with Section 404.
402.2  Individual structures.
402.2.1  Access.Individual    structures    hereafter    con
-
structed or relocated into or within wildland-urban interface
areas shall be provided with fire apparatus access in accor
-
dance with theInternational Fire Codeand driveways in ac
-
cordance  with  Section  403.2.  Marking  of  fire  protection
equipment  shall  be  provided  in  accordance  with  Section
403.5 and address markers shall be provided in accordance
with Section 403.6.
402.2.2  Water   supply.Individual   structures   hereafter
constructed or relocated into or within wildland-urban in
-
terface areas shall be provided with a conforming water sup
-
ply in accordance with Section 404.
Exceptions:
1.Structures constructed to meet the requirements
for  the  class  of  ignition-resistant  construction
specified in Table 503.1 for a nonconforming wa
-
ter supply.
2.Buildings containing only private garages, car
-
ports,  sheds  and  agricultural  buildings  with  a
floor area of not more than 600 square feet (56
m
2
).
SECTION 403
ACCESS
403.1  Restricted access.Where emergency vehicle access is
restricted  because  of  secured  access  roads  or  driveways  or
where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or fire-
fighting purposes, the code official is authorized to require a
key box to be installed in an accessible location. The key box
shall be of a type approved by the code official and shall con
-
tain keys to gain necessary access as required by the code offi
-
cial.
403.2  Driveways.Driveways  shall  be  provided  when  any
portion of an exterior wall of the first story of a building is lo
-
cated more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) from a fire apparatus ac
-
cess road. Driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed
width  of  12  feet  (3658  mm)  and  a  minimum  unobstructed
height of 13 feet 6 inches (4115 mm). Driveways in excess of
150 feet (45 720 mm) in length shall be provided with turn-
arounds.  Driveways  in  excess  of  200  feet  (60  960  mm)  in
length and less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width shall be pro-
vided with turnouts in addition to turnarounds.
A driveway shall not serve in excess of five dwelling units.
Driveway turnarounds shall have inside turning radii of not
less than 30 feet (9144 mm) and outside turning radii of not less
than 45 feet (13 716 mm). Driveways that connect with a road
or roads at more than one point may be considered as having a
turnaround if all changes of direction meet the radii require-
ments for driveway turnarounds.
Driveway turnouts shall be an all-weather road surface at
least 10 feet (3048 mm) wide and 30 feet (9144 mm) long.
Driveway turnouts shall be located as required by the code offi
-
cial.
Vehicle  load  limits  shall  be  posted  at  both  entrances  to
bridges  on  driveways  and  private  roads.  Design  loads  for
bridges shall be established by the code official.
403.3  Fire apparatus access road.When required, fire ap
-
paratus access roads shall be all-weather roads with a mini
-
mum width of 20 feet (6096 mm) and a clear height of 13 feet 6
inches (4115 mm); shall be designed to accommodate the loads
and turning radii for fire apparatus; and have a gradient nego
-
tiable by the specific fire apparatus normally used at that loca
-
tion within the jurisdiction. Dead-end roads in excess of 150
feet (45 720 mm) in length shall be provided with turnarounds
as approved by the code official. An all-weather road surface
shall be any surface material acceptable to the code official that
would normally allow the passage of emergency service vehi
-
cles to protect structures and wildlands within the jurisdiction.
403.4  Marking of roads.Approved signs or other approved
notices shall be provided and maintained for access roads and
driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the obstruction
thereof or both.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE11
CHAPTER 4
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS
1
04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:20:21 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

All  road  identification  signs  and  supports  shall  be  of
noncombustible materials. Signs shall have minimum 4-inch-
high (102 mm) reflective letters with
1
/
2
inch (12.7 mm) stroke
on a contrasting 6-inch-high (152 mm) sign. Road identifica
-
tion signage shall be mounted at a height of 7 feet (2134 mm)
from the road surface to the bottom of the sign.
403.5  Marking of fire protection equipment.Fire protec
-
tion equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly identified in a
manner approved by the code official to prevent obstruction.
403.6  Address markers.All buildings shall have a perma
-
nently posted address, which shall be placed at each driveway
entrance and be visible from both directions of travel along the
road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of
construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and the ad
-
dress shall be visible and legible from the road on which the ad
-
dress is located.
Address signs along one-way roads shall be visible from
both the intended direction of travel and the opposite direction.
Where multiple addresses are required at a single driveway,
they shall be mounted on a single post, and additional signs
shall be posted at locations where driveways divide.
Where a roadway provides access solely to a single com-
mercial or industrial business, the address sign shall be placed
at the nearest road intersection providing access to that site.
403.7  Grade.The  gradient  for  fire  apparatus  access  roads
and driveways shall not exceed the maximum approved by the
code official. It will be up to the code official to ascertain the stan-
dard based on local fire equipment grade not to exceed 12 percent.
SECTION 404
WATER SUPPLY
404.1  General.When provided in order to qualify as a con
-
forming water supply for the purpose of Table 503.1, an ap
-
proved water source shall have an adequate water supply for
the use of the fire protection service to protect buildings and
structures from exterior fire sources or to suppress structure
fires within the wildland-urban interface area of the jurisdic
-
tion in accordance with this section.
404.2  Water sources.The point at which a water source is
available for use shall be located not more than 1,000 feet (305
m) from the building and be approved by the code official. The
distance shall be measured along an unobstructed line of travel.
Water sources shall comply with the following:
1.   Man-made water sources shall have a minimum usable
water volume as determined by the adequate water sup
-
ply needs in accordance with Section 404.5. This water
source shall be equipped with an approved hydrant. The
water level of the water source shall be maintained by
rainfall, water pumped from a well, water hauled by a
tanker, or by seasonal high water of a stream or river. The
design, construction, location, water level maintenance,
access,  and  access  maintenance  of  man-made  water
sources shall be approved by the code official.
2.   Natural water sources shall have a minimum annual wa
-
ter level or flow sufficient to meet the adequate water
supply needs in accordance with Section 404.5. This wa
-
ter level or flow shall not be rendered unusable because
of freezing. This water source shall have an approved
draft site with an approved hydrant. Adequate water flow
and rights for access to the water source shall be ensured
in a form acceptable to the code official.
404.3  Draft sites.Approved draft sites shall be provided at
all natural water sources intended for use as fire protection for
compliance with this code. The design, construction, location,
access and access maintenance of draft sites shall be approved
by the code official.
The pumper access point shall be either an emergency vehi
-
cle access area alongside a conforming access road or an ap
-
proved driveway no longer than 150 feet (45 720 mm). Pumper
access points and access driveways shall be designed and con
-
structed in accordance with all codes and ordinances enforced
by this jurisdiction. Pumper access points shall not require the
pumper apparatus to obstruct a road or driveway.
404.4  Hydrants.All  hydrants  shall  be  designed  and  con
-
structed in accordance with nationally recognized standards.
The location and access shall be approved by the code official.
404.5  Adequate water supply.Adequate water supply shall
be determined for purposes of initial attack and flame front
control by the local jurisdiction. NFPA1142 may be used as a ref-
erence.
404.6  Fire  department.The  water  system  required  by  this
code can only be considered conforming for purposes of deter-
mining  the  level  of  ignition-resistant  construction  (see  Table
503.1).
404.7  Obstructions.Access to all water sources required by
this code shall be unobstructed at all times. The code official
shall not be deterred or hindered from gaining immediate ac
-
cess to water source equipment, fire protection equipment or
hydrants.
404.8  Identification.Water sources, draft sites, hydrants and
fire protection equipment shall be clearly identified in a manner
approved by the code official to identify location and to prevent
obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
404.9  Testing and maintenance.Water sources, draft sites,
hydrants and other fire protection equipment required by this
code shall be subject to periodic tests as required by the code
official. Code official shall establish a periodic testing schedule.
Costs are to be covered by the water provider. All such equipment
installed under the provisions of this code shall be maintained
in an operative condition at all times and shall be repaired or re
-
placed where defective. Additions, repairs, alterations and ser
-
vicing of such fire protection equipment and resources shall be
in  accordance  with  approved  standards.  Mains  and  appurte
-
nances shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 24. Water tanks
for private fire protection shallbe installed in accordance with
NFPA 22. The costs are to be covered by the water provider.
404.10  Reliability.
404.10.1  Objective.The objective of this section is to in
-
crease the reliability of water supplies by reducing the expo
-
sure of vegetative fuels to electrically powered systems.
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS
122006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:20:21 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

404.10.2  Clearance  of  fuel.Defensible  space  shall  be
provided around water tank structures, water supply pumps
and pump houses in accordance with Section 603.
404.10.3  Standby power.Stationary water supply facili
-
ties within the wildland-urban interface area dependent on
electrical power supplied by power grid to meet adequate wa
-
ter supply demands shall provide functional standby power
systems in accordance with the ICCElectrical Codeto en
-
sure that an uninterrupted water supply is maintained. The
standby power source shall be capable of providing power
for a minimum of two hours.
Exceptions:When  approved  by  the  code  official,  a
standby power supply is not required where the primary
power service to the stationary water supply facility is un
-
derground or there is an on-site generator.
SECTION 405
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN
405.1 Purpose.The plan is to provide a basis to determine overall
compliance with this code, for determination of Ignition Resistant
Construction  (IRC)  (see  Table  503.1)  and  for  determining  the
need for alternative materials and methods.
405.2  General.When required by the code official, a fire pro-
tection plan shall be prepared  and approved prior to the first
building permit issuance or subdivision approval.
405.3  Content.The plan shall be based upon a site-specific
wildfire risk assessment that includes considerations of loca-
tion, topography, aspect, flammable vegetation, climatic con-
ditions and fire history. The plan shall address water supply,
access, building ignition and fire-resistance factors, fire protec-
tion systems and equipment, defensible space and vegetation
management.
405.4  Cost.The cost of fire protection plan preparation and
review shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
405.5  Plan  retention.The  fire protection  plan  shall be  re
-
tained by the code official.
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE13
3
04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:20:21 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

142006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
4
04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\04_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, July 27, 2006 10:20:21 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 501
GENERAL
501.1 Scope.Buildings and structures shall be constructed in
accordance with theInternational Building Codeand this code.
Exceptions:
1.   Accessory structures not exceeding 120 square feet
(11 m
2
) in floor area when located at least 50 feet (15
240 mm) from buildings containing habitable spaces.
2.   Agricultural buildings at least 50 feet (15 240 mm)
from buildings containing habitable spaces.
501.2 Objective.The objective of this chapter is to establish
minimum standards to locate, design and construct buildings
and structures or portions thereof for the protection of life and
property, to resist damage from wildfires, and to mitigate build
-
ing and structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. The
minimum standards set forth in this chapter vary with the criti-
cal fire weather, slope and fuel type to provide increased pro-
tection, above the requirements set forth in theInternational
Building Code, from the various levels of hazards.
SECTION 502
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY
The fire hazard severity of building sites for all buildings here-
after constructed, modified or relocated into wildland-urban
interface areas shall be established in accordance with Appen
-
dix C.
The fire hazard severity is allowed to be reduced by imple
-
menting a vegetation management plan in accordance with Ap
-
pendix B.
SECTION 503
IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
503.1 General.Buildings and structures hereafter constructed,
modified or relocated into or within wildland-urban interface
areas shall meet the construction requirements in accordance
with Table 503.1. Class 1, Class 2 or Class 3 ignition-resistant
construction shall be in accordance with Sections 504, 505 and
506, respectively.
SECTION 504
CLASS 1 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
504.1 General.Class 1 ignition-resistant construction shall be
in accordance with Section 504.
504.2 Roof covering.Roofs shall have a Class A roof covering
or a Class A roof assembly. For roof coverings where the pro-
file allows a space between the roof covering and roof decking,
the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude entry
of flames or embers.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE15
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
TABLE 503.1
IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
a
DEFENSIBLE
SPACE
c
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY
Moderate HazardHigh HazardExtreme Hazard
Water Supply
b
Water Supply
b
Water Supply
b
Conforming
d
Nonconforming
e
Conforming
d
Nonconforming
e
Conforming
d
Nonconforming
e
NonconformingIR 2IR 1IR 1
IR 1
N.C.
IR 1
N.C.
Not Permitted
ConformingIR 3IR 2IR 2IR 1IR 1
IR 1
N.C.
1.5 x ConformingNot RequiredIR 3IR 3IR 2IR 2IR 1
a. Access shall be in accordance with Section 402.
b. Subdivisions shall have a conforming water supply in accordance with Section 402.1.
IR 1   = Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 504.
IR 2   = Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 505.
IR 3   = Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 506.
N.C.  = Exterior walls shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 1-hour and the exterior surfaces of such walls shall be noncombustible. Usage of log wall
construction is allowed.
c. Conformance based on Section 603.
d. Conformance based on Section 404.
e. A nonconforming water supply is any water system or source that does not comply with Section 404, including situations where there is no water supplyfor struc
-
ture protection or fire suppression.
1
05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:01:28 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

504.3 Protection of eaves.Eaves and soffits shall be protected
on the exposed underside by materials approved for a mini
-
mum of 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. Fascias are
required and must be protected on the backside by materials
approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con
-
struction or 2-inch (51 mm) nominal dimension lumber.
504.4 Gutters and downspouts.Gutters  and  downspouts
shall be constructed of noncombustible material.
504.5 Exterior walls.Exterior walls of buildings or structures
shall be constructed with materials approved for a minimum of
1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction on the exterior side or
constructed with approved noncombustible materials.
Exception:Heavy timber or log wall construction.
Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to
the underside of the roof sheathing.
504.6 Unenclosed underfloor protection.Buildings or struc
-
tures shall have all underfloor  areas enclosed to the ground
with exterior walls in accordance with Section 504.5.
Exception:Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural
columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re-
quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction
or heavy timber construction.
504.7 Appendages and projections.Unenclosed  accessory
structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and pro-
jections, such as decks, shall be a minimum of 1-hour  fire-re-
sistance-rated  construction,  heavy  timber  construction  or
constructed of approved noncombustible materials.
When the attached structure is located and constructed so
that the structure  or  any portion  thereof  projects over a de-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within
6 inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construc
-
tion in accordance with Section 504.5.
504.8 Exterior glazing.Exterior windows, window walls and
glazed  doors,  windows  within  exterior  doors,  and  skylights
shall  be  tempered  glass,  multilayered  glazed  panels,  glass
block or have a fire protection rating of not less than 20 min
-
utes.
504.9 Exterior doors.Exterior  doors  shall  be  approved
noncombustible construction, solid core wood not less than 1
3
/
4
inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating of not less
than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors shall
be in accordance with Section 504.8.
Exception:Vehicle access doors.
504.10 Vents.Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under
-
floor vents, or other ventilation openings in vertical exterior
walls  and  vents  through  roofs  shall  not  exceed  144  square
inches  (0.0929  m
2
)  each.  Such  vents  shall  be  covered  with
noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not to
exceed
1
/
4
inch (6.4 mm).
Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in soffits, in
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least 10
feet (3048  mm)  from  property  lines.  Underfloor  ventilation
openings shall be located as close to grade as practical.
504.11 Detached accessory structures.Detached accessory
structures located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from a build
-
ing containing habitable space shall have exterior walls con
-
structed with materials approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-
resistance-rated construction, heavy timber, log wall construc
-
tion or constructed with approved noncombustible materials on
the exterior side.
When the detached structure is located and constructed so
that the structure  or  any  portion  thereof  projects  over  a de
-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
in accordance with Section 504.5 or underfloor protection in
accordance with Section 504.6.
Exception:The enclosure may be omitted where the under
-
side of all exposed  floors  and all exposed  structural col
-
umns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required
for  exterior  1-hour  fire-resistance-rated  construction  or
heavy-timber construction.
See Section 504.2 for roof requirements.
SECTION 505
CLASS 2 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
505.1 General.Class 2 ignition-resistant construction shall be
in accordance with Section 505.
505.2 Roof covering.Roofs shall have at least a Class A roof
covering,  Class  B  roof  assembly  or  an  approved
noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the
profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof deck-
ing, the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude
entry of flames or embers.
505.3 Protection of eaves.Combustible eaves, fascias and sof
-
fits  shall  be  enclosed  with  solid  materials  with  a  minimum
thickness of
3
/
4
inch (19 mm). No exposed rafter tails shall be
permitted unless constructed of heavy timber materials.
505.4 Gutters and downspouts.Gutters and downspouts shall
be constructed of noncombustible material.
505.5 Exterior walls.Exterior walls of buildings or structures
shall be constructed with materials approved for a minimum of
1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction on the exterior side or
constructed with approved noncombustible materials.
Exception:Heavy timber or log wall construction.
Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to
the underside of the roof sheathing.
505.6 Unenclosed underfloor protection.Buildings or struc
-
tures shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground,
with exterior walls in accordance with Section 505.5.
Exception:Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural
columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re
-
quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction
or heavy timber construction.
505.7 Appendages and projections.Unenclosed  accessory
structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and pro
-
jections, such as decks, shall be a minimum of 1-hour fire-re
-
SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
162006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:01:28 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

sistance-rated  construction,  heavy  timber  construction  or
constructed with approved noncombustible materials.
When the attached structure is located and constructed so
that the structure  or  any  portion  thereof  projects  over  a de
-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
in accordance with Section 505.5.
505.8 Exterior glazing.Exterior windows, window walls and
glazed  doors,  windows  within  exterior  doors,  and  skylights
shall  be  tempered  glass,  multilayered  glazed  panels,  glass
block or have a fire-protection rating of not less than 20 min
-
utes.
505.9 Exterior doors.Exterior  doors  shall  be  approved
noncombustible construction,  solid  core  wood  not  less than
1
3
/
4
-inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating of not
less than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors
shall be in accordance with Section 505.8.
Exception:Vehicle access doors.
505.10 Vents.Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under-
floor  vents or other ventilation openings  in vertical exterior
walls  and  vents  through  roofs  shall  not  exceed  144  square
inches  (0.0929  m
2
)  each.  Such  vents  shall  be  covered  with
noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not to
exceed
1
/
4
inch (6.4 mm).
Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in soffits, in
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least 10
feet  (3048  mm)  from  property  lines.  Underfloor  ventilation
openings shall be located as close to grade as practical.
505.11 Detached accessory structures.Detached accessory
structures located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from a build
-
ing containing habitable space shall have exterior walls con
-
structed with materials approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-
resistance-rated construction, heavy timber, log wall construc
-
tion, or constructed with approved noncombustible material on
the exterior side.
When the detached structure is located and constructed so
that the structure  or  any  portion  thereof  projects  over  a de
-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
in accordance with Section 505.5 or underfloor protection in
accordance with Section 505.6.
Exception:The enclosure may be omitted where the under
-
side of all exposed  floors  and all exposed  structural col
-
umns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required
for  exterior  1-hour  fire-resistance-rated  construction  or
heavy-timber construction.
See Section 505.2 for roof requirements.
SECTION 506
CLASS 3 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
506.1 General.Class 3 ignition-resistant construction shall be
in accordance with Section 506.
506.2 Roof covering.Roofs shall have at least a Class A roof
covering,  Class  C  roof  assembly  or  an  approved
noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the
profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof deck
-
ing, the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude
entry of flames or embers.
506.3 Unenclosed underfloor protection.Buildings or struc
-
tures shall have all underfloor  areas enclosed to the ground
with exterior walls.
Exception:Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural
columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re
-
quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction
or heavy timber construction.
506.4 Vents.Attic ventilation openings, soffit vents, founda
-
tion or underfloor vents or other ventilation openings in verti
-
cal exterior walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed 144
square inches (0.0929 m
2
) each. Such vents shall be covered
with noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings
not to exceed
1
/
4
inch (6.4 mm).
SECTION 507
REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF ROOF COVERINGS
The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior
to the adoption of this code that are replaced or have 25 percent
or more replaced in a 12-month period shall be replaced with a
roof covering required for new construction based on the type
of ignition-resistant construction specified in accordance with
Section 503.
SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE17
3
05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:01:29 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

182006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
4
05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\05_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Friday, August 04, 2006 9:01:29 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION 601
GENERAL
601.1 Scope.The provisions of this chapter establish general
requirements  for  new  and  existing  buildings,  structures  and
premises located within wildland-urban interface areas.
601.2 Objective.The objective of this chapter is to establish
minimum requirements to mitigate the risk to life and property
from wildland fire exposures, exposures from adjacent struc
-
tures and to mitigate structure fires from spreading to wildland
fuels.
SECTION 602
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
DELETED
SECTION 603
DEFENSIBLE SPACE
603.1 Objective.Provisions  of  this  section  are  intended  to
modify the fuel load in areas adjacent to structures to create a
defensible space.
603.2 Fuel modification.In order to qualify as a conforming
defensible space for individual buildings or structures on a prop-
erty, fuel modification shall be provided within a distance from
buildings or structures as specified in Table 603.2. For all other
purposes, the fuel modification distance shall not be less than
30 feet (9144 mm) or to the property line, whichever is less.
Distances specified in Table 603.2 shall be measured on a hori
-
zontal plane from the perimeter or projection of the building or
structure as shown in Figure 603.2. Distances specified in Ta
-
ble 603.2 may be modified by the code official because of a
site-specific analysis based on local conditions and the fire pro
-
tection plan.
Persons owning, leasing, controlling, operating or maintain
-
ing buildings or structures requiring defensible spaces are re
-
sponsible  for  modifying  or  removing  nonfire-resistive
vegetation on the property owned, leased or controlled by said
person.
Trees are allowed within the defensible space, provided the
horizontal distance between crowns of adjacent trees and over
-
head electrical facilities or unmodified fuel is not less than 10
feet (3048  mm).  Deadwood  and  litter shall be  regularly  re
-
moved from trees.
Where  ornamental  vegetative  fuels  or  cultivated  ground
cover, such as green grass, ivy, succulents or similar plants are
used as ground cover, they are allowed to be within the desig
-
nated defensible space, provided they do not form a means of
transmitting fire from the native growth to any structure.
TABLE 603.2
REQUIRED DEFENSIBLE SPACE
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
AREA
FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE
(feet)
Moderate hazard30
High hazard50
Extreme hazard100
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
603.3 Community fuel modification zones.Fuel modification
zones to protect new communities shall be provided when re
-
quired by the code official in accordance with Section 603, in or
-
der to reduce fuel loads adjacent to communities and structures.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE19
CHAPTER 6
FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
FIGURE 603.2
MEASUREMENTS OF FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE
1
06_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\06_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:42:52 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

603.3.1 Land ownership.Fuel modification zone land used to
protect a community shall be under the control of an associa
-
tion or other common ownership instrument for the life of the
community to be protected.
603.3.2 Fuel modification zone plans.Fuel  modification
zone plans shall be approved prior to fuel modification work
and shall be placed on a site grading plan shown in plan view.
An elevation plan shall also be provided to indicate the length
of the fuel modification zone on the slope. Fuel modification
zone plans shall include, but not be limited to the following:
1.  Plan showing existing vegetation.
2.  Photographs  showing  natural  conditions  prior  to
work being performed.
3.  Grading plan showing location of proposed buildings
and structures, and set backs from top of slope to all
buildings or structures.
SECTION 604
MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE
604.1 General.Defensible  spaces  required  by  Section  603
shall be maintained annually, or as necessary in accordance
with Section 604.
604.2 Modified area.Nonfire-resistive vegetation or growth
shall be kept clear of buildings or structures, in accordance
with Section 603, in such a manner as to provide a clear area for
fire suppression operations.
604.3 Responsibility.Persons  owning,  leasing,  controlling,
operating or maintaining buildings or structures are responsi-
ble for maintenance of defensible spaces. Maintenance of the
defensible space shall include modifying or removing nonfire-
resistive vegetation and keeping leaves, needles and other dead
vegetative material regularly removed from roofs of buildings
and structures.
604.4 Trees.Individual trees and/or small clumps of trees or
brush crowns, extending to within 10 feet (3048 mm) of any
structure, shall be pruned to maintain a minimum horizontal
clearance of 10 feet (3048 mm). Tree crowns within the defen
-
sible space shall be pruned to remove limbs located less than 6
feet (1829 mm) above the ground surface adjacent to the trees.
Portions  of  tree crowns  that extend  within  10  feet (3048
mm) of the outlet of a chimney shall be pruned to maintain a
minimum horizontal clearance of 10 feet (3048 mm).
Deadwood and litter shall be regularly removed from trees.
SECTION 605
SPARK ARRESTERS
Chimneys serving fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators or deco
-
rative heating appliances in which solid or liquid fuel is used,
shall be provided with a spark arrester. Spark arresters shall be
constructed of woven or welded wire screening of 12 USA
standard gage wire (0.1046 inch) (2.66 mm) having openings
not exceeding
1
/
2
inch (12.7 mm).
The net free area of the spark arrester shall not be less than
four times the net free area of the outlet of the chimney.
SECTION 606
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS INSTALLATIONS
606.1 General.The storage of LP-gas and the installation and
maintenance  of  pertinent  equipment  shall  be  in  accordance
with theInternational Fire Codeor, in the absence thereof, rec
-
ognized standards.
606.2 Location of containers.LP-gas containers shall be lo
-
cated  within  the  defensible  space  in  accordance  with  the
Interational Fire Code.
SECTION 607
STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND COMBUSTIBLE
MATERIALS
Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in unen
-
closed spaces beneath buildings or structures, or on decks or
under eaves, canopies or other projections or overhangs. When
required by the code official, storage of firewood and combus
-
tible material stored in the defensible space shall be located a
minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from structures and separated
from the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of 15
feet (4572 mm).
Firewood and combustible materials not for consumption on
the premises shall be stored so as to not pose a hazard. See Ap-
pendix A.
FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
202006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
06_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\06_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:42:52 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

SECTION A101
GENERAL
A101.1 Scope.The provisions of this appendix establish gen
-
eral requirements applicable to new and existing properties lo
-
cated within urban-wildland interface areas.
A101.2 Objective.The objective of this appendix is to provide
necessary fire-protection measures to reduce the threat of wild
-
fire in an urban-wildland interface area and improve the capa
-
bility of controlling such fires.
SECTION A102
VEGETATION CONTROL
A102.1  General.Vegetation  control  shall  comply  with  this
section.
A102.2 Clearance of brush or vegetative growth from road-
ways.The code official is authorized to require areas within 10
feet (3048 mm) on each side of portions of fire apparatus access
roads and driveways to be cleared of nonfire-resistive vegeta-
tion growth.
Exception:Single specimens of trees, ornamental vegeta-
tive fuels or cultivated ground cover, such as green grass,
ivy, succulents or similar plants used as ground cover, pro-
vided they do not form a means of readily transmitting fire.
A102.3  Clearance  of  brush  and  vegetative  growth  from
electrical transmission and distribution lines.
A102.3.1  General.Clearance  of  brush  and  vegetative
growth from electrical transmission and distribution lines
shall be in accordance with Section A102.3.
Exception:Section A102.3 does not authorize persons
not having legal right of entry to enter on or damage the
property of others without consent of the owner.
A102.3.2 Support clearance.Persons owning, controlling,
operating or maintaining electrical transmission or distribu
-
tion lines shall have an approved program in place that iden
-
tifies poles or towers with equipment and hardware types
that have a history of becoming an ignition source, and pro
-
vides a combustible free space consisting of a clearing of not
less than 10 feet (3048 mm) in each direction from the outer
circumference of such pole or tower during such periods of
time as designated by the code official.
Exception:Lines  used  exclusively  as  telephone,  tele
-
graph, messenger call, alarm transmission or other lines
classed as communication circuits by a public utility.
A102.3.3  Electrical  distribution  and  transmission  line
clearances.
A102.3.3.1  General.Clearances  between  vegetation
and electrical lines shall be in accordance with Section
A102.3.3.
A102.3.3.2 Trimming clearance.At the time of trim
-
ming, clearances not less than those established by Table
A102.3.3.2  shall  be  provided.  The  radial  clearances
shown below are minimum clearances that shall be es
-
tablished, at time of trimming, between the vegetation
and the energized conductors and associated live parts.
TABLE A102.3.3.2
MINIMUM CLEARANCES BETWEEN VEGETATION
AND ELECTRICAL LINES AT TIME OF TRIMMING
LINE VOLTAGE
MINIMUM RADIAL CLEARANCE
FROM CONDUCTOR (feet)
2,400-72,0004
72,001-110,0006
110,001-300,00010
300,001 or more15
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
Exception:The code official is authorized to estab-
lish minimum clearances different than those speci-
fied  by  Table  A102.3.3.2  when  evidence
substantiating such other clearances is submitted to
and approved by the code official.
A102.3.3.3  Minimum  clearance  to  be  maintained.
Clearances  not  less  than  those  established  by  Table
A102.3.3.3 shall be maintained during such periods of
time as designated by the code official. The site-specific
clearance achieved, at time of pruning, shall vary based
on  species  growth  rates,  the  utility  company-specific
trim cycle, the potential line sway due to wind, line sag
due to electrical loading and ambient temperature and
the tree’s location in proximity to the high voltage lines.
Exception:The code official is authorized to estab
-
lish minimum clearances different than those speci
-
fied  by  Table  A102.3.3.3  when  evidence
substantiating such other clearances is submitted to
and approved by the code official.
TABLE A102.3.3.3
MINIMUM CLEARANCES BETWEEN VEGETATION AND
ELECTRICAL LINES TO BE MAINTAINED
LINE VOLTAGEMINIMUM CLEARANCE (inches)
750-35,0006
35,001-60,00012
60,001-115,00019
115,001-230,00030.5
230,001-500,000115
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm.
A102.3.3.4 Electrical power line emergencies.During
emergencies, the utility shall perform the required work
to the extent necessary to clear the hazard. An emergency
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE21
APPENDIX A
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (optional)
1
07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:29:23 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

can include situations such as trees falling into power
lines, or trees in violation of Table A102.3.3.3.
A102.4 Correction of condition.The code official is autho
-
rized to give notice to the owner of the property on which con
-
ditions  regulated  by  Section  A102  exist  to  correct  such
conditions. If the owner fails to correct such conditions, the
legislative body of the jurisdiction is authorized to cause the
same to be done and make the expense of such correction a lien
on the property where such condition exists.
SECTION A103
ACCESS RESTRICTIONS
A103.1 Restricted entry to public lands.The code official is
authorized to determine and publicly announce when urban-
wildland interface areas shall be closed to entry and when such
areas shall again be opened to entry. Entry on and occupation of
urban-wildland interface areas, except public roadways, inhab
-
ited areas or established trails and campsites that have not been
closed  during  such  time  when  the  urban-wildland  interface
area is closed to entry, is prohibited.
Exceptions:
1.   Residents and owners of private property within ur-
ban-wildland  interface  areas  and  their  invitees  and
guests going to or being on their lands.
2.   Entry, in the course of duty, by peace or police offi-
cers, and other duly authorized public officers, mem-
bers  of  a  fire  department  and  members  of  the
Wildland Firefighting Service.
A103.2 Trespassing on posted private property.
A103.2.1 General.When the code official determines that a
specific area within an urban-wildland interface area pres-
ents an exceptional and continuing fire danger because of
the density of natural growth, difficulty of terrain, proximity
to structures or accessibility to the public, such areas shall
be restricted or closed until changed conditions warrant ter
-
mination of such restriction or closure. Such areas shall be
posted in accordance with Section A103.2.2.
A103.2.2 Signs.Approved signs prohibiting entry by unau
-
thorized persons and referring to this code shall be placed on
every closed area.
A103.2.3 Trespassing.Entering and remaining within ar
-
eas closed and posted is prohibited.
Exception:Owners and occupiers of private or public
property within closed and posted areas; their guests or
invitees;  authorized  persons  engaged  in  the  operation
and maintenance of necessary utilities such as electrical
power, gas, telephone, water and sewer; and local, state
and federal public officers and their authorized agents
acting in the course of duty.
A103.3 Use of fire roads and defensible space.Motorcycles,
motor scooters and motor vehicles shall not be driven or parked
on, and trespassing is prohibited on, fire roads or defensible
space beyond the point where travel is restricted by a cable,
gate or sign, without the permission of the property owners.
Vehicles shall not be parked in a manner that obstructs the en
-
trance to a fire road or defensible space.
Exception:Public officers acting within their scope of duty.
Radio and television aerials, guy wires thereto, and other ob
-
structions shall not be installed or maintained on fire roads or
defensible spaces, unless located 16 feet (4877 mm) or more
above such fire road or defensible space.
A103.4 Use of motorcycles, motor scooters, ultralight air
-
craft  and  motor  vehicles.Motorcycles,  motor  scooters,
ultralight  aircraft  and  motor  vehicles  shall  not  be  operated
within urban-wildland interface areas, without a permit by the
code official, except on clearly established public or private
roads. Permission from the property owner shall be presented
when requesting a permit.
A103.5  Tampering  with  locks,  barricades,  signs  and  ad
-
dress markers.Locks, barricades, seals, cables, signs and ad
-
dress markers installed within urban-wildland interface areas,
by or under the control of the code official, shall not be tam
-
pered with, mutilated, destroyed or removed.
Gates, doors, barriers and locks installed by or under the
control of the code official shall not be unlocked.
SECTION A104
IGNITION SOURCE CONTROL
A104.1 General.Ignition sources shall be in accordance with
Section A104.
A104.2 Objective.Regulations in this section are intended to
provide the minimum requirements to prevent the occurrence
of wildfires.
A104.3 Clearance from ignition sources.Clearance between
ignition sources and grass, brush or other combustible materi-
als shall be maintained a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm).
A104.4 Smoking.When required by the code official, signs
shall be posted stating NO SMOKING. No person shall smoke
within 15 feet (4572 mm) of combustible materials or nonfire-
resistive vegetation.
Exception:Places of habitation or in the boundaries of es
-
tablished smoking areas or campsites as designated by the
code official.
A104.5 Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks or
open flames.Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks
or open flames capable of igniting nearby combustibles shall
not be used in urban-wildland interface areas without a permit
from the code official.
Exception:Use of approved equipment in habitated pre
-
mises or designated campsites that are a minimum of 30 feet
(9144 mm) from grass-, grain-, brush- or forest-covered ar
-
eas.
A104.6 Fireworks.Fireworks shall not be used or possessed in
urban-wildland interface areas.
Exception:Fireworks allowed by the code official under
permit in accordance with theInternational Fire Codewhen
not prohibited by applicable local or state laws, ordinances
and regulations.
The  code  official  is  authorized  to  seize,  take,  remove  or
cause to be removed fireworks in violation of this section.
APPENDIX A
222006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:29:24 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

A104.7 Outdoor fires.
A104.7.1 General.No person shall build, ignite or maintain
any outdoor fire of any kind for any purpose in or on any ur
-
ban-wildland  interface area,  except  by  the  authority  of  a
written permit from the code official.
Exception:Outdoor fires within inhabited premises or
designated campsites where such fires are in a permanent
barbecue, portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace, incinera
-
tor or grill and are a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from
any combustible material or nonfire-resistive vegetation.
A104.7.2 Permits.Permits shall incorporate such terms and
conditions that will reasonably safeguard public safety and
property. Outdoor fires shall not be built, ignited or main
-
tained in or on hazardous fire areas under the following con
-
ditions:
1.   When high winds are blowing,
2.   When a person 17 years old or over is not present at all
times to watch and tend such fire, or
3.   When a public announcement is made that open burn
-
ing is prohibited.
A104.7.3  Restrictions.No person shall use a permanent
barbecue, portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace or grill for
the disposal of rubbish, trash or combustible waste material.
A104.8 Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbe-
cues and  grills.Incinerators,  outdoor  fireplaces, permanent
barbecues and grills shall not be built, installed or maintained
in urban-wildland interface areas without approval of the code
official.
Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbecues and
grills shall be maintained in good repair and in a safe condition
at all times. Openings in such appliances shall be provided with
an approved spark arrestor, screen or door.
Exception:When  approved  by  the  code  official,  unpro
-
tected openings in barbecues and grills necessary for proper
functioning.
A104.9 Reckless behavior.The code official is authorized to
stop any actions of a person or persons if the official determines
that the action is reckless and could result in an ignition of fire
or spread of fire.
A104.10  Planting  vegetation  under  or  adjacent  to  ener
-
gized electrical lines.No vegetation shall be planted under or
adjacent to energized power lines that, at maturity, shall grow
within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the energized conductors.
SECTION A105
CONTROL OF STORAGE
A105.1 General.In addition to the requirements of theInter
-
national Fire Code, storage and use of the materials shall be in
accordance with Section A105.
A105.2 Hazardous materials.Hazardous materials in excess
of 10 gallons (37.8 L) of liquid, 200 cubic feet (5.66 m
3
) of gas,
or 10 pounds (4.54 kg) of solids require a permit and shall com
-
ply with nationally recognized standards for storage and use.
A105.3 Explosives.Explosives shall not be possessed, kept,
stored,  sold,  offered  for  sale, given  away, used,  discharged,
transported or disposed of within urban-wildland interface ar
-
eas, except by permit from the code official.
A105.4 Combustible materials.
A105.4.1 General.Outside storage of combustible materi
-
als such as, but not limited to, wood, rubber tires, building
materials or paper products shall comply with the other ap
-
plicable sections of this code and this section.
A105.4.2 Individual piles.Individual piles shall not exceed
5,000 square feet (465 m
2
) of contiguous area. Piles shall
not exceed 50,000 cubic feet (1416 m
3
) in volume or 10 feet
(3048 mm) in height.
A105.4.3 Separation.A clear space of at least 40 feet (12
192 mm) shall be provided between piles. The clear space
shall not contain combustible material or nonfire-resistive
vegetation.
SECTION A106
DUMPING
A106.1 Waste material.Waste material shall not be placed,
deposited or dumped in urban-wildland interface areas, or in,
on or along trails, roadways or highways or against structures
in urban-wildland interface areas.
Exception:Approved public and approved private dump-
ing areas.
A106.2 Ashes and coals.Ashes and coals shall not be placed,
deposited or dumped in or on urban-wildland interface areas.
Exceptions:
1.   In the hearth of an established fire pit, camp stove or
fireplace.
2.   In a noncombustible container with a tightfitting lid,
which is kept or maintained in a safe location not less
than 10 feet (3048 mm) from nonfire-resistive vegeta
-
tion or structures.
3.   Where  such  ashes  or  coals  are  buried  and  covered
with 1 foot (305 mm) of mineral earth not less than 25
feet (7620 mm) from nonfire-resistive vegetation or
structures.
SECTION A107
PROTECTION OF PUMPS AND
WATER STORAGE FACILITIES
A107.1 General.The reliability of the water supply shall be in
accordance with Section A107.
A107.2 Objective.The intent of this section is to increase the
reliability of water storage and pumping facilities and to pro
-
tect such systems against loss from intrusion by fire.
A107.3 Fuel modification area.Water storage and pumping
facilities shall be provided with a defensible space of not less
than 30 feet (9144 mm) clear of nonfire-resistive vegetation or
growth around and adjacent to such facilities.
Persons owning, controlling, operating or maintaining wa
-
ter  storage  and  pumping  systems  requiring  this  defensible
APPENDIX A
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE23
3
07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:29:24 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

space are responsible for clearing and removing nonfire-resis
-
tive vegetation and  maintaining the defensible  space on  the
property owned, leased or controlled by said person.
A107.4 Trees.Portions of trees that extend to within 30 feet
(9144  mm)  of  combustible  portions  of  water  storage  and
pumping facilities shall be removed.
A107.5 Protection of electrical power supplies.When elec
-
trical pumps  are used  to provide the required  water supply,
such pumps shall be connected to a standby power source to au
-
tomatically maintain electrical power  in  the  event  of  power
loss. The standby power source shall be capable of providing
power for a minimum of two hours in accordance with the ICC
Electrical Code.
Exception:A standby power source is not required where
the primary power service to pumps are underground as ap
-
proved by the code official.
SECTION A108
LAND USE LIMITATIONS
A108.1  General.Temporary  fairs,  carnivals,  public  exhibi
-
tions and similar uses must comply with all other provisions of
this code in addition to enhanced ingress and egress require-
ments.
A108.2 Objective.The increased public use of land or struc-
tures in urban-wildland interface areas also increases the po-
tential threat to life safety. The provisions of this section are
intended to reduce that threat.
A108.3  Permits.Temporary  fairs,  carnivals,  public  exhibi-
tions or similar uses shall not be allowed in a designated urban-
wildland interface area, except by permit from the code offi-
cial.
Permits shall incorporate such terms and conditions that will
reasonably safeguard public safety and property.
A108.4 Access roadways.In addition to the requirements in
Section 403, access roadways shall be a minimum of 24 feet
(7315 mm) wide and posted NO PARKING. Two access road
-
ways shall be provided to serve the permitted use area.
When required by the code official to facilitate emergency
operations, approved emergency vehicle operating areas shall
be provided.
APPENDIX A
242006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
4
07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.ps
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\07_AppA_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Thursday, August 03, 2006 2:29:24 PM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

APPENDIX B
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT PLAN
Vegetation management plans shall be submitted to the code
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for
a permit. Vegetation management plans shall describe all ac-
tions that will be taken to prevent a fire from being carried to-
ward  or  away  from  the building.  A  vegetation management
plan shall include at least the following information:
1.   A copy of the site plan.
2.   Methods and timetables forcontrolling, changing or mod-
ifying areas on the property. Elements of the plan shall in-
clude removal of slash, snags, vegetation that may grow
into overhead electrical lines, other ground fuels, ladder
fuels and dead trees, and the thinning of live trees.
3.   A plan for maintaining the proposed fuel-reduction mea-
sures.
To be considered a fuel modification for purposes of this
code, continuous maintenance of the clearance is required.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE25
Grasses
Agropyron cristatum(Crested Wheatgrass)
Agropyron smithii(Western Wheatgrass)
Buchloe dactyloides(Buffalograss)
Dactylis glomerata(Orchardgrass)
Festuca cinereaand other species  (Blue Fescue)
Loliumspecies  (Rye Grass)
Poa pratensis(Kentucky Bluegrass)
Poa secunda(Sandberg Bluegrass)
Herbaceous Perennials
Achillea clavennae(Silvery Yarrow)
Achillea filipendulina(Fernleaf Yarrow)
Achillea- other species & hybrids  (Yarrow)*
Aquilegia- species & hybrids  (Columbine)
Armeria maritime(Sea Pink, Sea Thrift)
Artemisia stelleriana(Beach Wormwood, Dusty Miller)
Artemisia- other species & hybrids  (Various names)*
Bergenia– species & hybrids  (Bergenia)
Centranthus rubber(Red Valerian, Jupiter’s Beard)
Cerastium tomentosum(Snow-in-summer)
Coreopsis auriculatavar.Nana(Dwarf Mouse Ear Coreopsis)
Coreopsis– other perennial species  (Coreopsis)
Delosperma nubigenum(Hardy Ice Plant)
Dianthus plumarius& others  (Pinks)
Erigeronhybrids  (Fleabane)*
Gaillardia X grandiflora(Blanket Flower)
Geranium cinereum(Hardy Geranium)
Geranium sanguineum(Bloody Cranesbill, Bloodred Geranium)
Geraniumspecies  (Geranium)
Hemerocallisspecies  (Daylily)
Heuchera sanguinea(Coral Bells, Alum Root)
Iberis sempervirens(Evergreen Candytuft)
Irisspecies & hybrids  (Iris)
Kniphofiaspecies & hybrids  (Red-hot Poker)
Lavandulaspecies  (Lavender)
Leucanthemum X superbum(Shasta Daisy)
Limonium latifolium(Sea-lavender, Statice)
Linumspecies  (Flax)
Liriope spicata(Lily-turf)
Lupinusspecies & hybrids  (Lupine)*
Medicago sativus(Alfalfa)
Oenotheraspecies  (Primrose)
Papaverspecies  (Poppy)
Penstemonspecies & hybrids  (Penstemon)
Perovskia atriplicifolia(Russian Sage, Azure Sage)
Potentilla nepalensis(Nepal Cinquefoil)
Potentilla tridentata(Wineleaf Cinquefoil)
Potentilla  verna  (tabernaemontani)(Spring  Cinquefoil;  Creeping
Potentilla)
Potentilla–  other  non-shrubby  species  &  hybrids  (Cinquefoil,
Potentilla)*
Salviaspecies & hybrids  (Salvia, Sage)*
Sedumspecies  (Stonecrop, Sedum)
Sempervivum tectorum(Hen and Chicks)
Stachys byzantina(Lamb’s Ear)
Yucca filamentosa(Yucca)
UTAH FIRE RESISTIVE SPECIES
Adapted from “Utah Forest Facts:  Firewise Plants for Utah Landscapes”
Utah State University Extension, 2002
continued
1
08_AppB_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_25.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\08_AppB_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:57:00 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

APPENDIX B
262006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
Shrubs and Woody Vines
Atriplexspecies  (Saltbush)
Ceanothus americanus(New Jersey Tea)
Ceanothus ovatus& others   (Ceanothus)
Cistusspecies  (Rock-rose)
Cotoneaster dammeri(Bearberry Cotoneaster)
Cotoneaster horizontalis(Rockspray or Rock Cotoneaster)
Cotoneaster– other compact species  (Cotoneaster)
Hedera helix(English Ivy)
Loniceraspecies & hybrids  (Honeysuckle)
Mahonia repens(Creeping Oregon Grape)
Parthenocissus quinquefolia(Virginia Creeper)
Prunus besseyi(Sand Cherry)
Purshia tridentata(Bitterbrush, Antelope Bitterbrush)
Pyracanthaspecies  (Firethorn, Pyracantha)
Rhamnusspecies  (Buckthorn)
Rhus trilobata(Skunkbush Sumac)
Rhus– other species  (Sumac)
Ribesspecies  (Currant, Gooseberry)
Rosa rugosa& other hedge roses  (Rugosa Rose)
Shepherdia canadensis(Russet Buffaloberry)
Syringa vulgare(Lilac)
Vinca major(Large Periwinkle)
Vinca minor(Dwarf Periwinkle, Common Periwinkle)
Trees
Acerspecies  (Maple)
Betulaspecies  (Birch)
Cercis canadensis(Eastern Redbud)
Populus tremuloides(Quaking Aspen)
Populus– other species  (Poplar, Cottonwood)
Salixspecies   (Willow)
* Plants or groups of plants marked with an asterisk (*) can become weedy in certain circumstances, and may even be noxious weeds with legal
restrictions against their planting and cultivation. Check with your local Extension office or State Department of Agriculture for information
on noxious weeds in your area.
Note:Some of the listed plants may not be considered “water-wise” or drought-tolerant for arid climates.
2
08_AppB_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_26.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\08_AppB_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Wednesday, October 18, 2006 7:53:03 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

A. Subdivision DesignPoints
1. Ingress/Egress
Two or more primary roads1___
One road10___
One-lane road in, one-lane road out15___
2. Width of Primary Road
20 feet or more1___
Less than 20 feet5___
3. Accessibility
Road grade 5% or less1___
Road grade 5-10%5___
Road grade greater than 10%10___
4. Secondary Road Terminus
Loop roads, cul-de-sacs with an outside turning
radius of 45 feet or greater1___
Cul-de-sac turnaround5___
Dead-end roads 200 feet or less in length8___
Dead-end roads greater than 200 feet in length10___
5. Street Signs
Present but unapproved3___
Not present5___
B. Vegetation (IUWIC Definitions)
1. Fuel Types
Surface
Lawn/noncombustible1___
Grass/short brush5___
Scattered dead/down woody material10___
Abundant dead/down woody material15___
Overstory
Deciduous trees (except tall brush)3___
Mixed deciduous trees and tall brush10___
Clumped/scattered conifers and/or tall brush15___
Contiguous conifer and/or tall brush20___
2. Defensible Space
70% or more of lots completed1___
30% to 70% of lots completed10___
Less than 30% of lots completed20___
C. Topography
Located on flat, base of hill, or setback at crest of hill1___
On slope with 0-20% grade5___
On slope with 21-30% grade10___
On slope with 31% grade or greater15___
At crest of hill with unmitigated vegetation below20___
D. Roofing Material
Class A Fire Rated1___
Class B Fire Rated5___
Class C Fire Rated10___
Nonrated20___
E. Fire Protection—Water Source
500 GPM hydrant within 1,000 feet1___
Hydrant farther than 1,000 feet or draft site5___
Water source 20 min. or less, round trip10___
Water source farther than 20 min., and
45 min. or less, round trip15___
Water source farther than 45 min., round trip20___
F. Siding and Decking
Noncombustible siding/deck1___
Combustible siding/no deck5___
Noncombustible siding/combustible deck10___
Combustible siding and deck15___
G . Utilities (gas and/or electric)
All underground utilities1___
One underground, one aboveground3___
All aboveground5___
Total for Subdivision
Moderate Hazard50–75
High Hazard76–100
Extreme Hazard101+
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE27
APPENDIX C
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY FORM
This appendix is to be used to determine the fire hazard severity.
1
09_AppC_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_27.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\09_AppC_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 11:49:26 AM
Color profile: Disabled
Composite  Default screen

282006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
09_AppC_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg28.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\09_AppC_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 9:57:15 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

INDEX
A
ACCESS
Applicability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Driveways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403.2
Fire apparatus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403.2
Grade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403.7
Individual structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402.2
Marking of roads . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403.4
Restricted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 403.1
Subdivisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402.1
ADDITIONS OR ALTERATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . 101.4
ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS OR METHODS. . . . 103.3
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS. . . . . . 602
C
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
CLASS 1 IGNITION-RESISTANT
CONSTRUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504
Detached accessory structures . . . . . . . . . 504.11
Exterior doors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.9
Exterior walls  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.5
Protection of eaves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.3
Roof covering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.2
Vents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.10
Windows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 504.8
CLASS 2 IGNITION-RESISTANT
CONSTRUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505
Detached accessory structures . . . . . . . . . 505.11
Exterior doors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.9
Exterior walls  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.5
Protection of eaves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.3
Roof covering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.2
Vents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.10
Windows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 505.8
CLASS 3 IGNITION-RESISTANT
CONSTRUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 506
Roof covering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 506.2
Unenclosed underfloor protection  . . . . . . . . 506.3
Vents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 506.4
CONTROL OF STORAGE. . . . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A,
Section A105
D
DEFENSIBLE SPACE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603
Fuel modification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 603.2
DEFINITIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
DUMPING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A, Section A106
F
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 502
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY FORM. . . . . . . Appendix C
G
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A
I
IGNITION SOURCE CONTROL. . . . . . . . . Appendix A,
Section A104
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
Authority to inspect  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.1.2
Citations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.4.4
Enforcements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.2
Reinspections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.1.3
Right of entry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.3
Unsafe conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107.4.5
L
LAND USE LIMITATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A,
Section A108
LIABILITY OF THE CODE OFFICIAL. . . . . . . . . 102.3
LPG INSTALLATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606
M
MAINTENANCE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101.6
MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE. . . . . . 604
Modified area  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.2
Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.3
Trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 604.4
P
PERMITS
Application  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.4
Approval . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.5
Expiration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.8
Issuance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.6
Required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.2
Retention  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.9
Revocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.10
Validity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.7
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE29
1
10_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_29.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\10_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:53:12 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen

Work exempt from permit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105.3
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Information on plans and specifications . . . . 106.2
Vegetation management plans . . . . . . . . . . . 106.4
POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE
CODE OFFICIAL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102.1
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103.1
PROTECTION OF PUMPS AND WATER
STORAGE FACILITIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A,
Section A107
R
REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF
ROOF COVERINGS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 507
RETROACTIVITY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101.4
S
SPARK ARRESTERS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
T
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103.2
U
URBAN-WILDLAND INTERFACE
AREA DESIGNATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301
Declaration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301.1
Mapping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301.2
Review  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301.3
V
VEGETATION CONTROL. . . . . . . . . . . . . Appendix A,
Section A102
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT PLAN. . . . Appendix B
W
WATER SUPPLY
Adequate water supply . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.5
Applicability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Draft sites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.3
Hydrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.4
Identification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.8
Individual structures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402.2
Obstructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.7
Reliability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.10
Subdivisions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402.1
Testing and maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.9
Water sources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404.2
INDEX
302006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
2
10_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006_pg_30.prn
M:\data\CODES\STATE CODES\Utah\2006\Wildland-Urban\Final VP\10_Utah_WildlandUrban_2006.vp
Tuesday, October 17, 2006 10:52:41 AM
Color profile: Generic CMYK printer profile
Composite  Default screen